Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is
a free, complete course for the CCNA.
If you like these videos, please
subscribe to follow along with the series.
Also, please like and leave a comment, and share
the video to help spread this free series of
videos. Thanks for your help. Also, remember
to sign up via the link in the description to
get all of the lab files for this course, so
you can try it out yourself in packet tracer.
If you want more labs like these, I highly
recommend picking up Boson’s NetSim for the CCNA,
click the link in the video
description to check it out.
It’s a network simulator like packet tracer, but
it’s even better, and it includes all of these
guided labs to not only help you get hands-on
practice configuring and troubleshooting,
but also deepen your understanding of the exam
topics. I used it myself when studying for my
certifications, so I feel confident
about recommending it to all of you.
If you want to get your own copy of NetSim,
please follow the link in the video description.
In this lab we will use CDP to map out a network
topology, and then disable CDP and switch the
network to LLDP. As you can see, there are
currently no IP address or interface labels
in this network. In this lab you will use CDP show
commands, and some other commands, to map out this
network. For the purpose of this video, I have
pre-made all of the labels, just to make the video
go more smoothly. But in the lab file I’m sharing
with you, you’ll have to make the labels yourself.
There are 4 steps, but they can be divided
into two parts. Steps 1 and 2 involve some
CDP configurations and using CDP to map out the
network. Then, in steps 3 and 4 we will disable
CDP and enable LLDP instead. These network
devices are all Cisco devices, so CDP is fine,
but perhaps we are switching over to LLDP to
prepare for adding devices from another vendor.
I was planning to have you configure the
CDP and LLDP timers in this lab, too,
but actually those configurations
aren’t supported in packet tracer!
Still, remember those commands, CDP TIMER,
CDP HOLDTIME, LLDP TIMER, LLDP HOLDTIME,
and LLDP REINIT. Okay, now I’ll do
steps 1 and 2 on each device first.
I’ll start on PC1. Although this PC can’t use CDP,
we need to add its IP address to this network
diagram. So, I’ll go to the CLI of PC1.
Then I’ll use the command IPCONFIG, and now
we get a few pieces of information. PC1’s IP
address is 192.168.1.1, and the subnet mask is
/24, so that means this LAN is 192.168.1.0/24.
Also, the default gateway is 192.168.1.254,
which must be R1’s IP address. So, let me add
those labels. Network address of 192.168.1.0/24.
.1 for PC1’s address. And .254 for R1’s address.
Now I’ll move to SW1. So, we need to add
interface labels for step 1, and disable CDP on
the interface connected to PC1 for step 2. First
let’s add the interface labels. ENABLE. So, let’s
check the CDP neighbor table. SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS.
Okay, so we can see that SW1’s Gig0/1 interface
is connected to R1’s Gig0/2 interface. Let me add
those labels now. G0/1 for SW1, and G0/2 for R1.
Now, how about the interface connected to
PC1? PC1 doesn’t use CDP, so we have to use a
different method. If there were many PCs connected
to SW1, we could check the MAC address of each PC,
and then look at SW1’s MAC address table to see
which interface is assigned to which MAC address.
However, I’m keeping it simple in this lab, only
1 PC is connected to each switch, so instead
let’s just check which interface of SW1 is in a
‘connected’ state. SHOW INTERFACES STATUS. Gig0/1
is connected to R1, and the only other interface
in a ‘connected’ state is FastEthernet0/10,
so that must be connected to PC1. I’ll add that
label now, F0/10 connected to PC1. But we’re not
done with SW1 yet, let’s return to the CLI. Next
I’ll disable CDP on F0/10, as stated in step 2.
CONF T. INTERFACE F0/10. First let’s check
with this command, DO SHOW CDP INTERFACE F0/10.
So, CDP is enabled on the interface.
Now let’s disable it. NO CDP ENABLE.
Remember, CDP RUN is used in global config
mode to enable or disable CDP itself.
CDP ENABLE is used in interface config mode to
enable or disable CDP on individual interfaces.
Okay, let’s check that it was disabled. DO
SHOW CDP INTERFACE F0/10. And now there is no
output, so CDP was disabled on the interface.
That’s all for SW1, now I’ll go on R1. ENABLE.
First I’ll add interface labels by checking
SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS. We already labeled G0/2 and
SW1’s G0/1. So, R1’s G0/0 is connected to R3’s
G0/1, let me label those. G0/0 for R1, and G0/1
for R3. Then, R1’s G0/1 interface is connected
to R2’s G0/0 interface, I’ll label them. G0/1 for
R1, G0/0 for R2. So, we’ve added interface labels,
now let’s check R1’s IP address.
First I’ll use SHOW INTERFACES G0/0.
Up here at the top you can see both the IP
address and the /30 prefix length. SHOW IP
INTERFACE BRIEF is a convenient way to check IP
addresses, but it doesn’t show the prefix length.
So, I’ll add the 10.0.13.0/30 network label
for this connection between R1 and R3,
and .1 for R1’s IP address. Now, because
this is a /30 subnet, there is only one more
valid host address in the network, that is .2.
So, I’ll add that label for R3’s interface.
However, just to practice CDP let’s confirm R3’s
address here on R1. Use the command SHOW CDP ENTRY
R3. Up here under the device name you
can see R3’s IP address, 10.0.13.2.
Now let’s check R1’s G0/1 interface. SHOW
INTERFACES G0/1. The IP address is 10.0.12.1/30,
so let’s add those labels. 10.0.12.0/30
for the network address, .1 for R1,
and once again this is a /30 network
so we know that R2’s address is .2.
Okay, let’s speed things up for the remaining
labels. I’ll do PC2, SW2, and R2 next,
first PC2. From the CLI of PC2, use IPCONFIG.
So, PC2’s address is 192.168.2.1/24, and R2’s
address is 192.168.2.254. Let’s add those labels.
First, the network address of 192.168.2.0/24. Then
.1 for PC2 and .254 for R2. Next I’ll move on to
SW2. ENABLE. Let’s check CDP. SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS.
Okay, here we can see that SW2’s G0/2
interface is connected to R2’s G0/1 interface,
let’s add those labels. G0/2 for SW2, and
G0/1 for R2. Sorry for the messy diagram,
sometimes it’s difficult to make all of
the text big enough for everyone to see,
while still fitting it all on one screen.
Now, which interface is connected to PC2?
SHOW INTERFACES STATUS. The
FastEthernet0/1 interface is ‘connected’,
so I’ll add that label, F0/1. Finally
let’s disable CDP on that interface.
CONF T. INTERFACE F0/1. NO CDP
ENABLE. Okay, that’s all for SW2.
Next, R2. All we need to check is the
connection between R2 and R3. ENABLE.
SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS. So, R2’s G0/2 interface
is connected to R3’s G0/2 interface.
I’ll add those labels now, G0/2 for both routers.
Now, how about the IP addresses?
Let’s check. SHOW INTERFACE G0/2.
Okay, R2’s IP address is 10.0.23.1/30.
So, we know the network address is
10.0.23.0/30, and R3’s address must
be 10.0.23.2. Let’s add those labels.
10.0.23.0/30 for the network, .1 for
R2 and .2 for R3. That’s all for R2.
Next I’ll do the same for PC3, SW3, and R3.
PC3 first. From PC3’s CLI use IPCONFIG. Okay,
PC3’s IP address is 192.168.3.1/24,
and R3’s IP address is 192.168.3.254.
Let’s label them. 192.168.3.0/24 for the network,
.1 for PC3 and .254 for R3. Next I’ll go on SW3.
ENABLE. SHOW CDP NEIGHBORS. Okay, SW3’s G0/1
interface is connected to R3’s G0/0 interface,
let me label those. G0/1 for SW3, and G0/0 for R3.
Next, which interface of SW3 is connected to PC3?
SHOW INTERFACES STATUS. FastEthernet0/24
is ‘connected’, so I’ll add that label.
And finally let’s disable CDP on that interface.
CONF T. INTERFACE F0/24. NO CDP ENABLE. Okay, we
have successfully used CDP to map out the network,
and disabled CDP on interfaces connected
to PCs. Steps 1 and 2 are complete.
Next, in steps 3 and 4 let’s disable CDP
and enable LLDP instead, enabling both LLDP
TRANSMIT and RECEIVE on the interfaces
connected to other routers or switches.
First, let me clarify something about LLDP
configurations. In the lecture I said you
have to enable LLDP globally and on each
interface, but actually the LLDP RUN command
should enable LLDP TRANSMIT and RECEIVE on each
interface. This might depend on the model of the
device. On some devices, LLDP itself is globally
enabled by default. But on the ones I tested
these configurations on, configuring LLDP RUN also
enabled LLDP on each interface. For the purpose of
this lab, however, LLDP TRANSMIT and RECEIVE have
been disabled and must be manually configured.
The configurations are quite simple,
so I’ll go through these quickly.
I’ll start here on SW3. First, EXIT to return to
global config mode. I’ll disable CDP. NO CDP RUN.
And then enable LLDP. LLDP RUN. Now, we need to
enable LLDP on each interface connected to another
network device, G0/1 only on SW3. INTERFACE
G0/1. LLDP TRANSMIT. LLDP RECEIVE. Okay, next R3.
ENABLE. CONF T. NO CDP RUN. LLDP RUN. Next I’ll
enable it on all three connected interfaces.
INTERFACE RANGE G0/0 – 2. LLDP
TRANSMIT. LLDP RECEIVE. Okay, R3’s done.
Next I’ll do SW2. EXIT. NO CDP RUN.
LLDP RUN. And I’ll enable it on G0/2.
INTERFACE G0/2. LLDP TRANSMIT. LLDP RECEIVE. Okay,
next R2. CONF T. NO CDP RUN. LLDP RUN. And let’s
enable it on all connected interfaces. INTERFACE
RANGE G0/0 – 2. LLDP TRANSMIT. LLDP RECEIVE.
Okay, finally SW1 and R1, SW1 first.
EXIT. NO CDP RUN. LLDP RUN. INTERFACE G0/1.
LLDP TRANSMIT. LLDP RECEIVE. And last, R1.
CONF T. NO CDP RUN. LLDP RUN. INTERFACE
RANGE G0/0 – 2. LLDP TRANSMIT. LLDP RECEIVE.
Okay, we’ve enabled LLDP on all devices. I’m going
to switch to Packet Tracer’s simulation mode.
As I click through here, you’ll see
various kinds of messages being sent.
EIGRP, because I pre-configured EIGRP
on the routers in case you want to try
out some pings. Also STP, and LLDP.
You might see some DTP messages too.
So, with this we can confirm that CDP has
been disabled and LLDP has been enabled.
If you want some additional practice, you could
try checking the interface and IP address labels,
this time using LLDP instead of CDP.
But that’s all for this lab. Next,
let’s take a look at a bonus lab in
Boson Software’s NetSim for CCNA.
Okay, here's today's Boson NetSim lab preview.
The lab is simply titled Link-Layer Discovery
Protocol. Here is the lab topology. It's pretty
simple, just two routers directly connected.
As I have said before, NetSim has a wide variety
of labs. Some of them are longer and more complex,
and some of them are shorter and simpler
like this one. And here are the commands
you need to know to complete this lab.
You already know all of these commands.
LLDP HOLDTIME, RECEIVE, RUN, TIMER, TRANSMIT,
and some SHOW commands. So there are three main
tasks. Task 1 is Configure LLDP. Task 2 Configure
LLDP on an Interface. And task 3 Tune LLDP Timers.
So looks pretty long, but each of these steps is
quite short and simple, so let's do the whole lab.
So starting with Task 1, step 1. It says up here,
all steps in this task are performed on Router1.
So here we are. Step 1, display global LLDP
information. Is LLDP running? Let's check.
SHOW LLDP. Okay, no LLDP is not running at the
moment. And then step 2 says enable LLDP. CONF T.
LLDP RUN. So, that enables
LLDP globally on the device,
and as I clarified before this also should enable
TRANSMIT and RECEIVE on each interface. I think in
the lecture I said you have to enable it globally
and then enable TRANSMIT and RECEIVE but actually,
usually just LLDP RUN should be enough. But this
might depend on the device model or IOS version.
Okay, so display a summarized list, or sorry
I skipped step 3. Issue the appropriate SHOW
command to verify that LLDP is enabled. So,
I'll do SHOW LLDP once more. And it is enabled,
it says status: ACTIVE. Okay, now I'll show that
LLDP neighbor list. DO SHOW LLDP NEIGHBORS.
How many neighbors have been discovered?
Just one here, Router2. Okay,
step 5. Display a detailed list of neighbors.
Okay, so that is SHOW LLDP NEIGHBORS DETAIL.
And what is the chassis ID of the neighbor
discovered? So you might be wondering what
that chassis ID is. That is this here. And what
does that look like? It's a MAC address. So this
is the MAC address of Router2. Okay, how many
seconds will elapse before Router1 discards
previously received LLDP information for this
neighbor? Okay, you might be wondering what
that means. That is referring to the hold time.
So it is currently the default of 120 seconds.
But at the moment there are 97 seconds
remaining, or when I did this SHOW command
there were 97 seconds. If I do that again, now
it's a different value, now it's 93 seconds.
Okay, so that is task 1. Next task 2 step 1.
Display LLDP information for the FastEthernet0/0
interface. Okay, DO SHOW LLDP INTERFACE F0/0.
Okay, what fields indicate that FastEthernet0/0 is
receiving and sending LLDP advertisements? Well,
you can see that both Tx and Rx are enabled. Tx is
currently IDLE, meaning it's waiting to send the
next frame, and Rx is in WAIT FOR FRAME state, and
that means it is waiting for the next frame from
Router2. Okay, disable LLDP advertisements from
being sent out of the FastEthernet0/0 interface.
Okay, INTERFACE F0/0. And I will use NO LLDP
TRANSMIT. And that disables the
advertisements out of the interface.
Okay, and then in step 4 let's
check that they were disabled.
Okay, so Tx is now disabled. However Rx is still
enabled. So, Router1 will still be able to receive
LLDP messages from Router2, but it won't
send any of its own messages to Router2.
Okay, and then step 5 says to configure Router1
to accept incoming LLDP advertisements, well
it already is, Rx is enabled, and to send LLDP
advertisements on the FastEthernet0/0 interface.
Okay, so that means enable TRANSMIT once more.
So, LLDP TRANSMIT. And it's enabled again.
Okay finally task 3, tune LLDP timers.
Step 1, display global LLDP information.
What is the default number of seconds that
will elapse before an LLDP advertisement is
sent? So that is by default 30 seconds. And next,
what is the default number of seconds that will
elapse before a receiving device
should discard information received
in a previously received LLDP advertisement
message from Router1? That might be a little
difficult to understand, that is referring to
the holdtime. And that is by default 120 seconds.
And there are the default timers. 30 seconds
for the advertisements, the messages,
120 second holdtime, and also the reinitialization
delay of 2 seconds, which isn't mentioned up here.
Okay, and then in steps 2 and 3 we are
going to cut these defaults in half. So,
a 60 second hold time and 15 second
message timer. Okay, so LLDP HOLDTIME 60.
LLDP TIMER 15. And let's check. DO SHOW
LLDP. Okay, there are the new timers.
Okay, so that's all for this lab. To finish up
let's use the grading function. And that is the
icon up here, it says grade lab. So if I click
on it, it tells us that we completed the lab
successfully. And you can check the configurations
of each device. Here's Router1. And none of the
configurations are highlighted either red or blue,
so that means that we successfully completed the lab.
Okay so that's Boson NetSim for the
CCNA. If you want to get Boson NetSim,
please follow the link in the video description.
There's over 100 detailed, guided labs, and
it's included with a powerful network simulator.
So I really highly recommend Boson NetSim
for the CCNA, or even CCNP after the CCNA.
So once again, if you want Boson NetSim, please
follow the link in the video description.
Before finishing today’s video I want
to thank my JCNP-level channel members.
To join, please click the
‘Join’ button under the video.
Thank you to Magrathea, Samil, Aaron, Junhong,
Njabulo, Benjamin, Tshepiso, Justin, Prakaash,
Nasir, Erlison, Apogee, Marko, Daming, Jhilmar,
Ed, Value, John, Funnydart, Velvijaykum, C Mohd,
Mark, Yousif, Boson Software,
Devin, Lito, Yonatan, and Vance.
Sorry if I pronounced your name incorrectly,
but thank you so much for your support.
This is the list of JCNP-level members at the time
of recording by the way, December 19th 2020. If
you signed up recently and your name isn’t on
here don’t worry, you’ll be in future videos.
Thank you for watching. Please
subscribe to the channel,
like the video, leave a comment, and share the
video with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the
description. I'm also a Brave verified publisher
and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips
via the Brave browser. That's all for now.